listen spike lee has his joints scorsese
makes his pictures
and m knight takes you on trips leave it
to the director whose name literally
gets used as a verb to continue taking
twists and turns decades into his career
with the best being him following his
sixth sense and completely
funding and owning his recent movies i
paid for the visit
split glass and and old all four of
those and i paid for servant as well
that way he's able to take the craziest
risks and ideas so
you know whether it's a hit or your
split on it at least there's no studio
meddling and you know that what's
happening on screen
is 100 his vision if you had to describe
old in three words or less what would
those words be
m night shyamalan let me explain so the
basic premise of old revolves around a
family who visits a foreign resort
with servants handing them cocktails
left and right only to find themselves
on a beach that messes with time more
than christopher nolan
it's a movie that can serve as a parable
which i think is his strongest aspect
but in terms of its premise it might age
faster than its title
so full spoilers from here on out oh no
so besides our main family and their two
kids
we also see a doctor come in with his
young wife younger daughter and his mom
miles is no stranger to getting lost on
an island and here he plays a nurse
who's on vacation with his wife who's a
psychologist who also gets lost
they're feeling unsafe there is a lot
going on here
and then there's a rapper who goes by
the name midsize sedan i envision him
in my mind as j cole
kendrick lamar nipsey hustle they find a
lady in the water which ends up being mr
sedan's friend which puts the plot in
drive when her body floats ashore
causing a little bit of a murder mystery
thing to go on on the beach he's the
first to reveal a pattern of illnesses
that'll connect them all when he
mentions that he's got blood clotting
but the doctor is too busy blind spot i
think this man had something to do with
it
i don't like this dynamic at all before
they can even pick up what's going on
the grandma's the next to go
and they realize half an hour is
equivalent to
something like one year of our lives
because it's a private beach they're
super secluded and guarded by these
walls made up of special rocks
they're minerals obviously the sense of
being a place where phones don't work
if you try to escape through the one-way
canyon inn you end up getting vertigoed
back
out with what is described as cranial
pressure as if you're deep underwater
but here it's like the air is bending
you it does an effective job of making
you feel uneasy
and it really does give you like
seasickness from your own seat with how
woozy it was shot
everyone is framed with more negative
space than there are reviews for this
thing
but i personally really like the
eeriness of at the beginning not really
seeing the kids
like they're blocking them out so that
they're aging off screen which is
much better than seeing the kids early
on be on an expedition of exposition to
flesh out m night's exhibition
you said five minutes technically it's
been more than five minutes boy if you
don't the graphic novel that the movie's
based on
actually expands on a lot more physical
changes but here i'm gonna make sure to
let you know that he was already dealing
with a hurricane while filming so he
wasn't gonna be dealing with continuity
issues
and so the nurse just straight up tells
the audience that hair nails they're not
going to grow here
that said i did think that the
prosthetics were done pretty well what
was confusing is occasionally i'd be
trying to pull one up and i realized
that was actually me
they end up having a jack shepherd
moment when prisca's tumor grows
exponentially and they have to cut it
out
making for one of the goriest scenes in
the movie but this also leads to the
reveal of the doctor's mental condition
that's deteriorating ever so slowly
which eventually leads him into manually
shifting mid-size sedan i don't like
this dynamic at all in the graphic novel
there is an abundance of overtly overtly
sexual moments but like
it's french the one that they do keep
here is that the doctor's daughter goes
from being a little girl to a little
woman who gets impregnated by trance
before she's even lost any of her baby
teeth
and because amna's not a man who sticks
with the formula they have none for the
baby and it goes straight from the womb
to the tomb
just would never have been made in the
studio so it's just that would have been
the first note you cannot do that
really yeah you cannot do what you just
did it's too outrageous you just can't
you can't do this to audiences that
causes her to try to escape
only to hit rock bottom but hey as
morbid as this whole bit was
m knight knew better than to do it to
the dog like they did in the comic
i mean i've done things in movies that
you just can't do right you just can't
do i kill
everybody right this is like you could
be a star you could be a baby you could
be whatever you're you're not safe in
these movies
this couple is next when jaren tries to
swim away only to end up drowning faster
than dunn did in that puddle
as his wife dies of a seizure because
the doctor was too busy getting rusted
the biggest shyamalan twist of it all
though was this model her calcium
deficiency
ends up having her contort more than she
did in lovecraft as she ages
leaving the original family as the final
survivors who have to accept their fate
they realize that their bond is
unbreakable as the kids stay wide awake
on the beach
seeing their parents return to dust like
sand castles on the beach
but in the last resort they decode the
signs that trent's friend left him whose
uncle actually runs the resort
they magically become olympian swimmers
as they escape through the coral reef
that leads them back to the village
as they smash the cocktails out of the
new visitors hands in order to foil this
place's evil plants
see in the comic there was an additional
character who was a sci-fi writer who
pitched theories for
why they might have all been trapped and
here i'm assuming that this journal that
was left behind
would be in his place it's where he
jotted down the previous trapped guests
and made the connection that all of them
were sick and it's even trent who
realizes that they were being observed
the entire time from a distance
as we learned that the island
practically has its own dharma
initiative
oh no they go by warren and warren who
are actually trying to fix blood clots
instead of causing them
they're a pharmaceutical company who's
on its 73rd trial using this beach as
like a speed run for their cocktail
medications
that they've concocted according to each
guest's health conditions guy had even
found a pamphlet for them in the
beginning that straight up said that the
resort worked with them
so as an insurance risk analyst himself
he should have known better
wow you believe i found this online uh
yeah now i'm not sure how they get fda
approval without disclosing the
815 patients that have come prior are
they like minos and scrub
all of these test subjects from
existence wouldn't it be easier to just
use that mckenzie realtor company that
was mentioned in the movie
buy the land and actually get volunteers
so that you get the most bang for your
buck
and while i know that the aging beach
factor is the big wow
how do they make a cancer cocktail taste
good wow
i just got two in the end night's twist
just serves to give the answers that the
comic doesn't but i still think that the
thematic parts stand out way more the
idea of turning a vacation destination
into the place you can't escape
in the graphic novel there's a parable
of a king who made a deal with death in
order to save his soul
but in isolating himself in his castle
to avoid it he really just ended up
building his own tomb and here you have
prisca who works in a museum
finding herself focusing more on the
past while her husband is always too
worried about the future
there's all these perceptions of time
like being a kid who wants to grow up
too fast instead of enjoying the game of
freeze tag that they have in the present
on kids becoming the caretakers once
their parents hit a certain age and the
dynamics switch
of a father who doesn't want his kids to
see him be the one who cries
and a couple who realizes how miniscule
their fights can be in the grand scheme
of things we never leave each other
nothing separates us from night it also
came at a time where he was reflecting
back on his parents age from my dad who
actually has
some dementia and he would not stop
talking
about jack nicholson marlon brando and
he kept going on and on and on i was
like dad i'm putting this in a movie if
you keep talking about this and then
he did and it was for me it represents
kind of
like this this thing that someone's
holding on to for their sanity this is
this that has everyone must know these
are the two greatest actors of all time
in fact it was his kids who got him the
graphic novel to read which connected
with him so much that he bought the
rights for it
made this movie and then had his kids
working with him as the second unit
director since
hey it's completely his it was a
beautiful thing to be on one side of the
beach shooting and i see
down the beach she's shooting something
else it's a it's an amazing feeling and
and at the end of the day we were like
you know work buddies at the end of the
day we would go and have a you know a
drink and eat something at the bar
at the hotel and then fall asleep and we
would just chat about what happened i
can't believe the camera jammed on that
thing
we would share stories so whether you're
someone who's stuck in the past
stuck in the present or stuck in the
future one thing's for sure
you can't outrun time
beat them time you know takes everybody
out it's undefeated thank you all for
watching this video and i'm curious to
know your thoughts your theories
anything else down below in the comment
section i know that i'm night's not a
person who does
a lot of sequels you just reserved that
for the uh unbreakable series but
i'm curious to see what you caught that
i might have missed but it's definitely
one where the thematic elements are
like the best parts of it you know it's
telling you to appreciate life enjoy the
now
that idea that as he states we enjoy the
sunset when we're on vacation not
realizing that
it's still the same sunset that we have
back home and really just looking at
time as being the most valuable thing
which to somebody means keeping this
movie uh on a side note it was
interesting to see that uh there wasn't
just families behind the camera but
it was cool to see tilda swinton's
cousin i know her daughter's been in the
souvenir and now her cousin's expanding
as well
clint eastwood's daughter was in this so
just looking at the families you know
just grow and grow
um and it's going to be interesting to
see whether m knight's daughter is going
to be doing more stuff i know she's
directed some other stuff
dealing with tv so we'll see what the
next m night
uh dynasty has in store but i'm curious
know your thoughts on this movie whether
you liked it whether you did it your
theories
what your favorite m night movie is any
of that stuff down below in the comment
section
until next time don't forget to comment
like and subscribe and i'll send you a
special cocktail